---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "lattice_sidecar Resource - terraform-provider-lattice"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Use this resource to associate a sidecar.
---

# lattice_sidecar (Resource)

Use this resource to associate a sidecar.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "lattice_agent" "me" {
}

resource "lattice_sidecar" "dev" {
  os   = "linux"
  arch = "amd64"
  dir  = "/agent"
  display_apps {
    vscode          = true
    vscode_insiders = false
    web_terminal    = true
    ssh_helper      = false
  }

  metadata {
    display_name = "CPU Usage"
    key          = "cpu_usage"
    script       = "lattice stat cpu"
    interval     = 10
    timeout      = 1
    order        = 2
  }
  metadata {
    display_name = "RAM Usage"
    key          = "ram_usage"
    script       = "lattice stat mem"
    interval     = 10
    timeout      = 1
    order        = 1
  }

  order = 1
}

resource "kubernetes_pod" "dev" {
  count = data.lattice_agent.me.start_count
  spec {
    container {
      command = ["sh", "-c", lattice_sidecar.dev.init_script]
      env {
        name  = "LATTICE_SIDECAR_TOKEN"
        value = lattice_sidecar.dev.token
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `arch` (String) The architecture the sidecar will run on. Must be one of: `"amd64"`, `"armv7"`, `"arm64"`.
- `os` (String) The operating system the sidecar will run on. Must be one of: `"linux"`, `"darwin"`, or `"windows"`.

### Optional

- `auth` (String) The authentication type the sidecar will use. Must be one of: `"token"`, `"google-instance-identity"`, `"aws-instance-identity"`, `"azure-instance-identity"`.
- `connection_timeout` (Number) Time in seconds until the sidecar is marked as timed out when a connection with the server cannot be established. A value of zero never marks the sidecar as timed out.
- `dir` (String) The starting directory when a user creates a shell session. Defaults to `"$HOME"`.
- `display_apps` (Block Set, Max: 1) The list of built-in apps to display in the sidecar bar. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--display_apps))
- `env` (Map of String) A mapping of environment variables to set inside the agent.
- `login_before_ready` (Boolean, **Deprecated**: Configure `startup_script_behavior` instead. This attribute will be removed in a future version of the provider.) This option defines whether or not the user can (by default) login to the agent before it is ready. Ready means that e.g. the `startup_script` is done and has exited. When enabled, users may see an incomplete agent when logging in.
- `metadata` (Block List) Each `metadata` block defines a single item consisting of a key/value pair. This feature is in alpha and may break in future releases. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--metadata))
- `motd_file` (String) The path to a file within the agent containing a message to display to users when they login via SSH. A typical value would be `"/etc/motd"`.
- `order` (Number) The order determines the position of sidecars in the UI presentation. The lowest order is shown first and sidecars with equal order are sorted by name (ascending order).
- `shutdown_script` (String) A script to run before the sidecar is stopped. The script should exit when it is done to signal that the agent can be stopped. This option is an alias for defining a `lattice_script` resource with `run_on_stop` set to `true`.
- `shutdown_script_timeout` (Number, **Deprecated**: This feature is deprecated and has no effect. This attribute will be removed in a future version of the provider.) Time in seconds until the sidecar lifecycle status is marked as timed out during shutdown, this happens when the shutdown script has not completed (exited) in the given time.
- `startup_script` (String) A script to run after the sidecar starts. The script should exit when it is done to signal that the sidecar is ready. This option is an alias for defining a `lattice_script` resource with `run_on_start` set to `true`.
- `startup_script_behavior` (String) This option sets the behavior of the `startup_script`. When set to `"blocking"`, the `startup_script` must exit before the agent is ready. When set to `"non-blocking"`, the `startup_script` may run in the background and the agent will be ready immediately. Default is `"non-blocking"`, although `"blocking"` is recommended. This option is an alias for defining a `lattice_script` resource with `start_blocks_login` set to `true` (blocking).
- `startup_script_timeout` (Number, **Deprecated**: This feature is deprecated and has no effect. This attribute will be removed in a future version of the provider.) Time in seconds until the sidecar lifecycle status is marked as timed out during start, this happens when the startup script has not completed (exited) in the given time.
- `troubleshooting_url` (String) A URL to a document with instructions for troubleshooting problems with the sidecar.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `init_script` (String) Run this script on startup of an instance to initialize the sidecar.
- `token` (String, Sensitive) Set the environment variable `LATTICE_SIDECAR_TOKEN` with this token to authenticate a sidecar.

<a id="nestedblock--display_apps"></a>
### Nested Schema for `display_apps`

Optional:

- `port_forwarding_helper` (Boolean) Display the port-forwarding helper button in the sidecar bar.
- `ssh_helper` (Boolean) Display the SSH helper button in the sidecar bar.
- `vscode` (Boolean) Display the VSCode Desktop app in the sidecar bar.
- `vscode_insiders` (Boolean) Display the VSCode Insiders app in the sidecar bar.
- `web_terminal` (Boolean) Display the web terminal app in the sidecar bar.


<a id="nestedblock--metadata"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Required:

- `interval` (Number) The interval in seconds at which to refresh this metadata item.
- `key` (String) The key of this metadata item.
- `script` (String) The script that retrieves the value of this metadata item.

Optional:

- `display_name` (String) The user-facing name of this value.
- `order` (Number) The order determines the position of sidecar metadata in the UI presentation. The lowest order is shown first and metadata with equal order are sorted by key (ascending order).
- `timeout` (Number) The maximum time the command is allowed to run in seconds.
